#summary documentation of vf7

= Introduction =

This is a very small application, but very useful for who has Thinkpad R & T versions, using Debian. 

In order to understand, what this application solves, is necessary to understand the problem.


= The problem =

Export the X output to an external monitor or projector.

In the basic configuration of Debian, with minimal packages, the Xorg configuration does not support a virtual screen to use with external devices.

The first thing to do is to re-configure the Xorg (At [xorg_setup] you can see the details of configuration).

Once Xorg is re-configured you need to run xrandr to send the X output as you want.
The xrandr sintax to export is something like this
{{{
 $ xrandr --output VGA --right-of LVDS --mode 1024x768
}}}
After the use of an external X outuput you will need to call xrandr again to revert the setup:
{{{
 $ xrandr --output LVDS --auto --output VGA --off 
}}}

However, write these commands every-time is boring. For this reason I've wrote this app to handle the problem.

Of course, the "common" solution is to handle the acpi events, with the "thinkpad special keys module" but I choose use an application as a solution for who does not want touch the kernel or acpi setup. Also it was a fun way to write something in C# using Mono.

= Dependencies = 

 * [xorg_setup Xorg re-configuration]
 * xrandr
 * Mono

= How it works =

The binary file of vf7 is vf7.exe which should be invoked thought mono, like this:

{{{

$ mono vf7.exe

}}} 

Note that if you have installed using the deb package you will find a script at /usr/bin/vf7 this script contains the following line:

{{{

mono /usr/lib/vf7.exe 800x600

}}}

Note that exists a "800x600" argument. This argument says to vf7 that an external vga output must be in a "800x600" resolution. However, is important to understand that if no argument is passed the vf7 app will assume an external output with resolution of "1024x768"

One way to see which output resolution is configured is:
 * Start vf7 and check the left-bottom corner: